<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY symmy "<application>Symmy</application>">
  <!ENTITY kappname "&symmy;">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<book id="symmy" lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &symmy; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
  <author><firstname>Elvis</firstname><surname>Angelaccio</surname>
    <affiliation>
      <address>
	<email>elvis.angelaccio@kde.org</email>
      </address>
    </affiliation>
  </author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2017</year>
<holder>Elvis Angelaccio</holder>
</copyright>

<date>2017-11-23</date>
<releaseinfo>&symmy; 0.70</releaseinfo>

<legalnotice>
  &FDLNotice;
</legalnotice>

<abstract>
  <para>
    &symmy; is a frontend for the symmetric encryption functionality of GPG.
  </para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
  <keyword>KDE</keyword>
  <keyword>encryption</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
  <title>Introduction</title>
  <para>
    &symmy; is a simple command-line application that can be used to encrypt or decrypt one or more files using the symmetric encryption functionality of GPG.
    A file encrypted by &symmy; can be decrypted by anyone who has access to the GPG program and the encryption key.
  </para>
  <para>
    &symmy; can also be used from Dolphin or Plasma Folder View thanks to the <guimenuitem>Encrypt</guimenuitem> and <guimenuitem>Decrypt</guimenuitem> items in the context menu.
  </para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="usage">
  <title>Usage</title>

  <sect1 id="encryption">
    <title>Encrypt Files</title>
    <para>
      You can encrypt one or more files by selecting them in Dolphin or Plasma Folder View and clicking the <guimenuitem>Encrypt</guimenuitem> entry in the context menu.
    </para>
    <para>
      Note that you cannot encrypt a folder. If you need to do that, you should compress the folder and then encrypt the resulting archive.
    </para>
    <para>
      It's also not possible to encrypt remote files or files that are already encrypted.
    </para>
    <sect2 id="encryption_key">
      <title>Choose an Encryption Key</title>
      <para>
        &symmy; will ask you a password (or passphrase) that will be used as encryption key for <emphasis>all</emphasis> the selected files.
        You should choose a strong encryption key and you should store it in a secure place (such as a password manager).
        If you need to send the key to another person, you should do so over a secure channel (for example, by meeting in person).
      </para>
    </sect2>
    <sect2 id="managing_encryption">
      <title>Manage an Encryption Operation</title>
      <para>
        The encryption operation will take some time depending on the number of files and on their size.
        You can track the progress of the operation from the notification applet provided by Plasma.
        From the notification plasmoid you can also abort the encryption operation if necessary.
    </para>
    </sect2>
  </sect1>

  <sect1 id="decryption">
    <title>Decrypt Files</title>
    <para>
    You can decrypt one or more encrypted files by selecting them in Dolphin or Plasma Folder View and clicking the <guimenuitem>Decrypt</guimenuitem> entry in the context menu.
    Note that this entry will be visibile only when selecting encrypted files.
    </para>
    <sect2 id="decryption_key">
      <title>Type the Decryption Key</title>
      <para>
        To decrypt the selected files, &symmy; will ask you the password or passphrase that was used as encryption key.
        Remember that symmetric encryption means that encryption and decryption keys are the same.
        &symmy; assumes that all the selected files have been encrypted using the same key.
        If that's not the case, it will fail to decrypt one or more files and it will tell you at the end of the decryption operation.
      </para>
    </sect2>
    <sect2 id="managing_decryption">
      <title>Manage a Decryption Operation</title>
      <para>
        The decryption operation will take some time depending on the number of files and on their size.
        You can track the progress of the operation from the notification applet provided by Plasma.
        From the notification plasmoid you can also abort the decryption operation if necessary.
    </para>
    </sect2>
  </sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="credits">
  <title>Credits and License</title>
  <para>
    &symmy;
  </para>
  <para>
    Program copyright &copy; 2017 Elvis Angelaccio
    <email>elvis.angelaccio@kde.org</email>
  </para>
  <para>
    Documentation copyright &copy; 2017 Elvis Angelaccio
    <email>elvis.angelaccio@kde.org</email>
  </para>
<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
&underFDL;
&underGPL;
</chapter>

&documentation.index;

</book>
