<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<refentry lang="&language;">
<refentryinfo>
<title>Symmy User's Manual</title>
<author>
&Elvis.Angelaccio;
&Elvis.Angelaccio.mail;
<personblurb><para>Authored this program and this man page</para></personblurb>
</author>
<date>2017-11-25</date>
<releaseinfo>symmy 0.70</releaseinfo>
</refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
<refentrytitle><command>symmy</command></refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv>
<refname><command>symmy</command></refname>
<refpurpose>Frontend for the symmetric encryption functionality of GPG.</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv id="_synopsis">
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>symmy</command>
<arg rep="repeat"><replaceable>OPTIONS</replaceable></arg>
<arg rep="repeat"><replaceable>FILES</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<refsect1>
<title>DESCRIPTION</title>
<para>
<command>symmy</command> is a simple application that can be used to encrypt or decrypt one or more files using the symmetric encryption functionality of GPG.
A file encrypted by <command>symmy</command> can be decrypted by anyone who has access to the GPG program and the encryption key.
</para>
<para>
<command>symmy</command> can also be used from &dolphin; or &plasma; Folder View thanks to the <guimenuitem>Encrypt</guimenuitem> and <guimenuitem>Decrypt</guimenuitem> items in the context menu.
</para>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>ENCRYPTION</title>
<para>
You can encrypt one or more files by writing their paths after the <option>encrypt</option> option.
You can also select them in &dolphin; or &plasma; Folder View and click the <guimenuitem>Encrypt</guimenuitem> entry in the context menu.
</para>
<para>
Note that you cannot encrypt a folder. If you need to do that, you should compress the folder and then encrypt the resulting archive.
It's also not possible to encrypt remote files or files that are already encrypted.
</para>

<refsect2>
<title>Choosing an Encryption Key</title>
<para>
<command>symmy</command> will ask you a password (or passphrase) that will be used as encryption key for <emphasis>all</emphasis> the selected files.
You should choose a strong encryption key and you should store it in a secure place (such as a password manager).
If you need to send the key to another person, you should do so over a secure channel (for example, by meeting in person).
</para>
</refsect2>

<refsect2>
<title>GPG Requirement</title>
<para>
<command>symmy</command> uses GPG to perform the actual encryption, so it assumes that the <command>gpg-agent</command> process is running and properly configured.
</para>
</refsect2>

<refsect2>
<title>Managing an Encryption Operation</title>
<para>
The encryption operation will take some time depending on the number of files and on their size.
You can track the progress of the operation from the notification applet provided by &plasma;.
From the notification plasmoid you can also abort the encryption operation if necessary.
</para>
</refsect2>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>DECRYPTION</title>
<para>
You can decrypt one or more encrypted files by writing their paths after the <option>decrypt</option> option.
You can also select them in &dolphin; or &plasma; Folder View and click the <guimenuitem>Decrypt</guimenuitem> entry in the context menu.
Note that this entry will be visible only when selecting encrypted files.
</para>

<refsect2>
<title>Managing a Decryption Operation</title>
<para>
The decryption operation will take some time depending on the number of files and on their size.
You can track the progress of the operation from the notification applet provided by &plasma;.
From the notification plasmoid you can also abort the decryption operation if necessary.
</para>
</refsect2>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>OPTIONS</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>-e, --encrypt</option>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Encrypts the given list of files after asking a passphrase. This option is implicitly set if there are no other options.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>-d, --decrypt</option>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Decrypts the given list of files after asking the decryption key. Note that <option>encrypt</option> and <option>decrypt</option> are mutually exclusive.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>-h, --help</option>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Shows a brief synopsis and description of the command line options.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>-v, --version</option>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Shows the version of this program.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--author</option>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Shows information about the author of this program.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--license</option>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Shows information about the license of this program.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
